0. Contents of This Document
----------------------------

    1. Compilation Instructions
    2. Running Crystal Space
    3. Special Comments for X Windows Version
    4. Command-Line Arguments And The Config File
    5. The Console



1. Compilation Instructions
---------------------------

To compile Crystal Space for your platform, read the appropriate installation 
document as indicated below.  

    Amiga                       INSTALL.Amiga
    BeOS                        INSTALL.BeOS
    DOS / DJGPP                 INSTALL.General NOTES.DOS
    FreeBSD                     INSTALL.Unix
    Linux                       INSTALL.Unix
    Macintosh                   INSTALL.Mac
    NextStep                    INSTALL.NeXT
    OpenStep                    INSTALL.NeXT
    OS/2                        INSTALL.General NOTES.OS2
    Rhapsody (MacOS/X Server)   INSTALL.NeXT
    Solaris                     INSTALL.Unix
    Unix                        INSTALL.Unix
    Windows 95 / Visual C++     INSTALL.Win

After reading the appropriate platform-specific installation instructions,
return to this document and continue reading with the next section.


2. Running Crystal Space
------------------------

To run Crystal Space you need at least the following:

    1. An executable (walktest.exe, walktest, ...)
    2. standard.zip (not really required but recommended)
    3. unless you are using a statically linked version of CS
       you should also have a 3D rasterizer library (for example
       the software rasterizer), a 2D driver library (for example
       for XLib or SVGALIB) and at least the Network NULL Driver.
       Those libraries are either in .so format (for Unix) or
       in .DLL format (for OS/2 and Windows).
    4. The configuration file: cryst.cfg
    5. One or more level files (*.zip)

And of course you also need a computer :-)

The executable and all other files must be located in the same
directory. The level files may be put anywhere. Please
note that the level files should NOT be extracted. Crystal Space
can read zip files directly and this is also the preferred way.

To run Crystal Space with a specific level you have two
possibilities (lets assume that you have put the level in a
directory called 'data' and this directory is located in the
same directory as the executable):

    cryst data/level.zip

(replace level.zip with any level you want).

Otherwise you can edit cryst.cfg and set WORLDFILE=data/level.zip
as a configuration option.

Note that Crystal Space currently only supports 256-color displays
(with a colormap) or 15/16/32-bit truecolor displays.


3. Special Comments for X Windows Version
-----------------------------------------

Note that the X version of Crystal Space optionally supports the Shared
Memory Extension (SHM). This makes Crystal Space run much faster if your
server supports it (Crystal Space should also support DGA but this is not
yet the case).

By default Crystal Space assumes that your server supports SHM. It will
automatically auto-detect if your server doesn't support it. So you can
safely leave it enabled.


4. Command-Line Arguments And The Config File
---------------------------------------------

Crystal Space supports a number of command-line options. With
'-help' you get a list and a description (including the default
that is used for that option). The default for every command-line
option is set internally in the program unless there is a
corresponding line for it in the config file. For example,
normally the default for -cache is 4000000 (the default size
of the texture cache). But when CACHE=2000000 is set in 'cryst.cfg'
the default will be 2000000. Using an option on the command-line will
always override the default.

Some interesting options to play with are:
  -mode 640x480
        (or an other value). Use this option to set the size of the display.
  -driver opengl
        (or direct3d, glide, software, ...). Use this option to select
        another kind of display driver.

The configuration file ('cryst.cfg') is useful for keeping options that
you use often. Not all options can be set with the configuration file
though, and not all configuration file options have a corresponding
command-line option. See docs/config.txt for a complete list of all
configuration file options.


5. The Console
--------------

There is also an input/output console that you can use (similar to
the one in Quake). Press 'tab' to toggle between the console and
normal output. There are several commands that you can use. Type
'help' to get the list of commands. There is a document docs/console.txt
describing all these commands.

