Known platform specific bugs and problems
-----------------------------------------

These problems are both relevant for compiling and running.
Crystal Space is work in progress. Expect these problems to go away
in the future.


With the exception of MacOS/X Server, OpenStep, and NextStep,
all ports of Crystal Space require an 8-bit, 15-bit, 16-bit, or 
32-bit display to run.  It will NOT work on 24-bit displays.  

DJGPP: If you have gcc 2.8.1 then you must disabled optimization
(set OPT=debug in mk/user.mak) before compilation because there seems
to be a bug in the optimizer. You can also download EGCS from
http://goof.com/pcg/ which fixes this problem and also generates a
more efficient executable.

DJGPP: With very old versions of gcc you need to disable the assembler
routines (set DO_ASM=no in mk/user.mak) because the assembler doesn't
understand some of the MMX routines. You should upgrade to a more recent
version of DJGPP if possible.

DJGPP: 'make djgpp' does not work in some cases (depending on the
tools that you have). To fix this just edit 'makefile' manually
and change the lines between 'Changeable section' as follows:
	export SYSMAKEFILE=mk/system/djgpp.mak
	export USE_DLL=no
	export TARGET=djgpp

Windows: It is possible that you will have to remove the definition
of INT32 from jmorecfg.h. This definition conflicts with some Windows
specific define with the same name.

Windows: Clicking on the Crystal Space window with the mouse will
crash Crystal Space. Solution? Don't click :-)

Windows: Due to a bug you need to set the DEPTH mode in cryst.cfg
to exactly the same as the depth of the desktop you are using (for
example, 8, 16, or 32).

Windows: When for some reason a warning pops up and CS is in fullscreen
mode then this warning will not be visible but CS will simply appear
to hang. When this happens just press enter to remove the invisible
warning.

Linux: Some RedHat systems require an explicit link from /usr/X11R6
to /usr/X11. This link is normally standard but RedHat does not have
it.

Glide: The Glide port is not fully functional yet. There are some
known problems (lightmaps not being lighted correctly and so on).

OpenGL: The OpenGL port is not fully functional yet. It needs an
lightmap blending option which not all cards understand (for example
the RIVA 128ZX does not do it) so lightmaps are not correctly applied.
Also 2D graphics (text mostly) does not work.

Direct3D: The Direct3D port suffers from the same bug as the OpenGL
port with the lightmaps not correctly applied on some 3D cards.


5. Command-Line Arguments And The Config File
---------------------------------------------

Crystal Space supports a number of command-line options. With
'-help' you get a list and a description (including the default
that is used for that option). The default for every command-line
option is set internally in the program unless there is a
corresponding line for it in the config file. For example,
normally the default for -cache is 4000000 (the default size
of the texture cache). But when CACHE=2000000 is set in 'cryst.cfg'
the default will be 2000000. Using an option on the command-line will
always override the default.

Some interesting options to play with are:
  -mode 640x480
        (or an other value). Use this option to set the size of the display.
  -nocolldet
        If you experience problems with the current collision detection
        system you can disable it with this option.

The configuration file ('cryst.cfg') is useful for keeping options that
you use often. Not all options can be set with the configuration file
though, and not all configuration file options have a corresponding
command-line option. See docs/config.txt for a complete list of all
configuration file options.


6. The Console
--------------

Starting with version 0.06 there is also an input/output console that
you can use. Press 'tab' to toggle between the console and normal output.
There are several commands that you can use. Type 'help' to get the
list of commands. There is a document docs/console.txt describing
all these commands.
